So I'm actually gonna remove
my existing Heroku app so
that I can be in sync with all of you.
Clear, Heroku apps destroy,
I forgot the name of that app.
There it is, good old history.
All right, so I don't have an app anymore.
And if I look at git remote, so
creating a git remote is the way
that Heroku receives your app.
You push to Heroku,
the same way you push to GitHub and
making that git commit, and
like pushing it up to Heroku,
that is the whole deploy process
is connected to that action.
So if we look at git remote, and
we see all we have here is origin,
we would expect
to see that there would be one there
called Heroku if we had an app wired up.
So we're here at a starting point where
we don't have anything set up, yet.
Now I've already installed the tool belt,
and
I've already gone through
the Heroku login step.
Some people were a little bit surprised
that you don't see your password as you
type it in.
This is for your safety, because you might
notice that as soon as you hit Enter,
your email is left there
in the terminal and
there's a file that has the history
of all of your terminal commands.
You wouldn't want your password to be
in plain text in that log file for
someone to find.
That would be a super easy way
to mess with someone's machine.
So I'm already logged in,
I'm gonna begin by creating an app.
So run Heroku.
Let me do something to get
rid of some prompt here.
Ln -s training/seo/project,
we'll just call it seo.
Much better.
So now I can type and you can see.
So Heroku apps create,
we can optionally give it a name.
If you don't,
it'll take two dictionary words and
smash them together with dash and
put a random number next to it.
I'm just going to call mine, mike-seo.
So this is creating the app.
And if you were to visit this
URL there's no app deployed yet.
It's sort of in its
an empty initialized state.
It's not being nice to me here.
All right, so it's gonna say, welcome.
So this is not an error page.
This indicates that like the app has
been created but there's no code there.
This is sort of just a placeholder.
So what we need to do
is now set the app up.
And we're gonna do that
with Heroku config set.
So what we're doing here is we're setting
environment variables on our Heroku app.
This is a very common way of being able
to sort of toggle things at runtime.
So when our app is running and
we can even change an environment variable
using the same command config set and
our app will be stopped.
The environment variable will be set and
it will quickly restart again.
What this is gonna let us do is
change from exercise to exercise.
So what we see on Heroku, it's gonna start
with the stuff in the deploy folder.
Later we'll have it using this opengraph
folder and this mobile folder and
we can kind of alternate through
them in just a couple seconds.
And then give Facebook a URL and
see what metadata it can find off of.
So that's this first one,
the second one is use HTTPS.
This basically means that when we're on
Heroku, if non secure requests come in,
we redirect them to the secure
version of our URL.
And Google is starting to more and
more have a bias towards secure URLs and
then the latest like performance
testing tools like lighthouse,
which we'll look at later.
Which is used to evaluate the fitness of
your web application for mobile devices.
Redirecting from insecure
to secure HTTP is one of
the checks that you'll get a pass or
fail on.
So we're gonna set this equal to true,
it's worth noting,
we wouldn't want to set this
equal to true, locally,
because we're not serving with
the SSL certificate, right?
And what's more we're using
a permanent redirect, so
I actually screwed up my own dev
environment a couple days ago,
where I had this local host,
with the permanent redirect.
And I had to go through and delete history
items cuz forever, Chrome was remembering
that, when the user types in this URL,
we could use the secure one instead.
And there is no way for
me to get back to the insecure one.
So this is why it's
an environment variable.
Our environment variables are set if we
wanted to see the current state of things.
We could just run Heroku config and
it'll show us the current
environment variables at play here.
They have some great documentation too,
Heroku help config will tell
you we can just use this to display
the config variables for an app.
You can get a value,
you can set a value, pretty, easy.
The one that you can't see there is
config unset, which is sort of like,
null it out remove the environment
variable entirely.
All right, so now we're ready to deploy.
The way we deploy to Heroku is
it's set up a new git remote for
us as part of the apps create command.
No, git remote.
So you see now we have a new one here.
Origin is gonna send me to GitHub, right?
That's where we checked our code out from.
Heroku is gonna deploy whatever this
current version of our code is up to them.
We're basically saying,
send the master branch to Heroku,
his master branch and what it's doing
here in addition to the Git stuff itself,
you can see that if I widen
this a little bit I can.
It's going through the process of
installing all of our dependencies,
you see that it's using yarn,
which is like a new package manager
that you can use instead of NPM.
It is discovering different process
types and now just finished creating
this version of the app and
it's available on that particular URL.
Now we could just visit this
URL if we wanted to and
our app should be there and running.
So we can go ahead and
add some metadata to this app.
So if we were to view source here, and
see what this HTML actually looks like.
So there's really nothing in the head tag
except for links to CSS style sheets.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Thank you.
There's not much I can do for
this projector unfortunately.
But take my word for it, those links,
that's actually all we see.
You're just missing
the open head tag up there.
So, what we need to do is update this so
that we have like at least
the bare minimum for
making it so
that this result shows up the way we want.
So first let's add a title tag and
we could say,
I'm just gonna move this down and
get rid of this temporarily and that so
we can say title is,
deployment instructions and
then we can add a meta tag.
And I'm just gonna copy
it from my slides here.
So the name, we've got name and content.
Those are the two things you need to
remember, name is a description and
this is gonna be how to
deploy our first step.
And then we could add keywords here for
like, comma separated,
deployment Heroku, git,
shell commands, seo.
So we can save that and
then do another,
>> You have two description tags.
>> I've have to description tags, thanks.
We can first do git commit.
This is how we save this
version of our file.
So git add, so we're basically saying
I want to take all of the files that
are changed, stage them to be saved
in this next version of our app.
This is like the action of
making a save git commit.
Add basic seo data, right?
And so now we've like, updated our app and
we're ready to push it up to Heroku.
And you see it's gonna go through
basically the same steps.
Once it's done, it will refresh
this view source thing over here and
we should see the title and stuff up here.
So this is pretty fast,
deploying to Heroku,
it could be even faster except I've
had to disable some caching that was
getting in my way that
had to do with SaaS.
So it can be like one second and
your new app is ready.
So if we refresh this, sometimes it
takes a second for things to show up.
Here we go.
We've got deployment instructions, and
here are two meta tags showing up.
So there we go,
that's the solution to this exercise.
I will note that the one one
thing that people found, for
some Heroku commands,
you have to add something like this
Like dash dash app and
then the name of your app here.
This is useful because sometimes
you have multiple apps.
Sometimes for my apps,
I'll have like a staging environment and
a production environment,
both of which are hosted on Heroku.
And it kind of needs to know which
thing are you talking about?
Which machine do you want to
see the config variables on.
So that was the only
thing that seemed to be
missing an explicit way
from the instructions.